0 ] ] r go
0 * * r 0

go _ _ l getStateB 
go 0 0 l getState0 
go 1 1 l getState1 

getStateB ! ! l getTR3
getStateB * * l getStateB
getState0 ! ! l getTR2
getState0 * * l getState0
getState1 ! ! l markTR
getState1 * * l getState1

getTR2 , , l markTR
getTR2 * * l getTR2
getTR3 , , l getTR2
getTR3 * * l getTR3

markTR . # l markTR
markTR - < l markTR
markTR + > l markTR
markTR L L l markTR
markTR R R l markTR
markTR _ _ r goWriteB
markTR 0 0 r goWrite0
markTR 1 1 r goWrite1
markTR * * r halt

goWriteB ] ] r writeB
goWriteB * * r goWriteB
goWrite0 ] ] r write0
goWrite0 * * r goWrite0
goWrite1 ] ] r write1
goWrite1 * * r goWrite1

writeB * _ l getShift
write0 * 0 l getShift
write1 * 1 l getShift

getShift # # l getShift2
getShift < < l getShift2
getShift > > l getShift2
getShift * * l getShift 
getShift2 L L r doShiftL
getShift2 R R l doShiftR
getShift2 * * l getShift2

doShiftL ] _ l shiftLBra 
doShiftL * * r doShiftL
shiftLBra , ] l shiftLCom
shiftLBra : ] l shiftLCol
shiftLBra ! ] l shiftLExc
shiftLCom . , l shiftLDot
shiftLCom - , l shiftLMin
shiftLCom + , l shiftLPlu
shiftLCom # , l shiftLHas
shiftLCom < , l shiftLLes
shiftLCom > , l shiftLGre
shiftLCom , , l shiftLCom
shiftLCom : , l shiftLCol
shiftLCom ! , l shiftLExc
shiftLCom [ , l shiftLEnd
shiftLCol . : l shiftLDot
shiftLCol - : l shiftLMin
shiftLCol + : l shiftLPlu
shiftLCol # : l shiftLHas
shiftLCol < : l shiftLLes
shiftLCol > : l shiftLGre
shiftLCol , : l shiftLCom
shiftLCol : : l shiftLCol
shiftLCol ! : l shiftLExc
shiftLCol [ : l shiftLEnd
shiftLExc . ! l shiftLDot
shiftLExc - ! l shiftLMin
shiftLExc + ! l shiftLPlu
shiftLExc # ! l shiftLHas
shiftLExc < ! l shiftLLes
shiftLExc > ! l shiftLGre
shiftLExc , ! l shiftLCom
shiftLExc : ! l shiftLCol
shiftLExc ! ! l shiftLExc
shiftLExc [ ! l shiftLEnd
shiftLDot L . l shiftLL
shiftLDot R . l shiftLR
shiftLHas L # l shiftLL
shiftLHas R # l shiftLR
shiftLMin - - l shiftLMin
shiftLMin L - l shiftLL
shiftLMin R - l shiftLR
shiftLPlu + + l shiftLPlu
shiftLPlu L + l shiftLL
shiftLPlu R + l shiftLR
shiftLLes < < l shiftLLes
shiftLLes L < l shiftLL
shiftLLes R < l shiftLR
shiftLGre > > l shiftLGre
shiftLGre L > l shiftLL
shiftLGre R > l shiftLR
shiftLL _ L l shiftLB
shiftLL 0 L l shiftL0
shiftLL 1 L l shiftL1
shiftLR _ R l shiftLB
shiftLR 0 R l shiftL0
shiftLR 1 R l shiftL1
shiftLB , _ l shiftLCom
shiftLB : _ l shiftLCol
shiftLB ! _ l shiftLExc
shiftLB [ _ l shiftLEnd
shiftL0 , 0 l shiftLCom
shiftL0 : 0 l shiftLCol
shiftL0 ! 0 l shiftLExc
shiftL0 [ 0 l shiftLEnd
shiftL1 , 1 l shiftLCom
shiftL1 : 1 l shiftLCol
shiftL1 ! 1 l shiftLExc
shiftL1 [ 1 l shiftLEnd
shiftLEnd _ [ r goWriteBb
shiftLEnd 0 [ r goWrite0b
shiftLEnd 1 [ r goWrite1b

goWriteBb ] ] r writeBb
goWriteBb * * r goWriteBb
goWrite0b ] ] r write0b
goWrite0b * * r goWrite0b
goWrite1b ] ] r write1b
goWrite1b * * r goWrite1b

writeBb * _ l changeState
write0b * 0 l changeState
write1b * 1 l changeState

doShiftR ] ] r shiftR
doShiftR * * r doShiftR
shiftR _ _ l shiftRB
shiftR 0 0 l shiftR0
shiftR 1 1 l shiftR1
shiftRB ] * r shiftRBBra
shiftRBBra * ] l shiftRBStep
shiftRB , * r shiftRBCom
shiftRBCom * , l shiftRBStep
shiftRB : * r shiftRBCol
shiftRBCol * : l shiftRBStep
shiftRB ! * r shiftRBExc
shiftRBExc * ! l shiftRBStep
shiftRB . * r shiftRBDot
shiftRBDot * . l shiftRBStep
shiftRB - * r shiftRBMin
shiftRBMin * - l shiftRBStep
shiftRB + * r shiftRBPlu
shiftRBPlu * + l shiftRBStep
shiftRB # * r shiftRBHas
shiftRBHas * # l shiftRBStep
shiftRB < * r shiftRBLes
shiftRBLes * < l shiftRBStep
shiftRB > * r shiftRBGre
shiftRBGre * > l shiftRBStep
shiftRB L * r shiftRBL
shiftRBL * L l shiftRBStep
shiftRB R * r shiftRBR
shiftRBR * R l shiftRBStep
shiftRB _ * r shiftRBB
shiftRBB * _ l shiftRBStep
shiftRB 0 * r shiftRB0
shiftRB0 * 0 l shiftRBStep
shiftRB 1 * r shiftRB1
shiftRB1 * 1 l shiftRBStep
shiftRB [ _ r shiftREnd
shiftRBStep * * l shiftRB
shiftR0 ] * r shiftR0Bra
shiftR0Bra * ] l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 , * r shiftR0Com
shiftR0Com * , l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 : * r shiftR0Col
shiftR0Col * : l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 ! * r shiftR0Exc
shiftR0Exc * ! l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 . * r shiftR0Dot
shiftR0Dot * . l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 - * r shiftR0Min
shiftR0Min * - l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 + * r shiftR0Plu
shiftR0Plu * + l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 # * r shiftR0Has
shiftR0Has * # l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 < * r shiftR0Les
shiftR0Les * < l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 > * r shiftR0Gre
shiftR0Gre * > l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 L * r shiftR0L
shiftR0L * L l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 R * r shiftR0R
shiftR0R * R l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 _ * r shiftR0B
shiftR0B * _ l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 0 * r shiftR00
shiftR00 * 0 l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 1 * r shiftR01
shiftR01 * 1 l shiftR0Step
shiftR0 [ 0 r shiftREnd
shiftR0Step * * l shiftR0
shiftR1 ] * r shiftR1Bra
shiftR1Bra * ] l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 , * r shiftR1Com
shiftR1Com * , l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 : * r shiftR1Col
shiftR1Col * : l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 ! * r shiftR1Exc
shiftR1Exc * ! l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 . * r shiftR1Dot
shiftR1Dot * . l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 - * r shiftR1Min
shiftR1Min * - l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 + * r shiftR1Plu
shiftR1Plu * + l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 # * r shiftR1Has
shiftR1Has * # l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 < * r shiftR1Les
shiftR1Les * < l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 > * r shiftR1Gre
shiftR1Gre * > l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 L * r shiftR1L
shiftR1L * L l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 R * r shiftR1R
shiftR1R * R l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 _ * r shiftR1B
shiftR1B * _ l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 0 * r shiftR10
shiftR10 * 0 l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 1 * r shiftR11
shiftR11 * 1 l shiftR1Step
shiftR1 [ 1 r shiftREnd
shiftR1Step * * l shiftR1
shiftREnd * [ r changeStateR

changeState # . r 0
changeState [ [ r 0
changeState < - r downState
changeState > + r upState
changeState * * l changeState
changeStateR # . r 0
changeStateR < - r downState
changeStateR > + r upState
changeStateR * * r changeStateR

upState ! : r upState2
upState * * r upState
upState2 : ! l changeState
upState2 * * r upState2

downState ! : l downState2
downState * * r downState
downState2 : ! r downStateR
downState2 * * l downState2
downStateR < - l downStateL
downStateR ] ] r go
downStateR * * r downStateR
downStateL ! : l downState2
downStateL * * l downStateL